Networks help organizations
communicate and connect.
But communication makes network attacks
more likely because it gives a malicious
actor an opportunity to take
advantage of vulnerable devices and
unprotected networks.
Communication over a network happens when
data is transferred from one point to
another. Pieces of data are typically
referred to as data packets.
A data packet is a basic unit of
information that travels from one
device to another within a network.
When data is sent from one device to
another across a network, it is sent as
a packet that contains information about
where the packet is going, where it's
coming from, and
the content of the message.
Think about data packets like
a piece of physical mail.
Imagine you want to send
a letter to a friend.
The envelope will need to have the address
where you want the letter to go
and your return address.
Inside the envelope is a letter that contains
the message that you
want your friend to read.
A data packet is very
similar to a physical letter.
It contains a header that includes
the internet protocol address, the IP
address, and the media access control, or
MAC, address of the destination device.
It also includes a protocol number that
tells the receiving device what to do with
the information in the packet.
Then there's the body of the packet,
which contains the message that needs to
be transmitted to the receiving device.
Finally, at the end of the packet,
there's a footer,
similar to a signature on a letter,
the footer signals to the receiving
device that the packet is finished.
The movement of data packets across a
network can provide an indication of how
well the network is performing. Network
performance can be measured by bandwidth.
Bandwidth refers to the amount of
data a device receives every second.
You can calculate bandwidth by dividing
the quantity of data by the time in
seconds.
Speed refers to the rate at which data
packets are received or downloaded.
Security personnel are interested
in network bandwidth and speed
because if either are irregular,
it could be an indication of an attack.
Packet sniffing is
the practice of capturing and
inspecting data packets
across the network.
Communication on the network is
important for sharing resources and
data because it allows organizations
to function effectively.
Coming up,
you'll learn more about the protocols
to support network communication.